Reorg Polkadot Vision (#6729)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/general/polkadot-v2.md

---
title: Polkadot 2.0
description: Explore Polkadot 2.0's innovations making Polkadot's decentralized computer more accessible and efficient.
---

Understanding what [Polkadot 1.0](./polkadot-v1.md) is about, and the philosophy behind it, will help
us envision the future direction of the Polkadot as a high-performance decentralized computer capable of delivering secure computation and interoperability to anyone and anything.

## Polkadot as a Decentralized Computer

Polkadot has been abstracted and generalized beyond what was originally proposed and envisioned in
the [whitepaper](https://polkadot.network/whitepaper/). 

Polkadot 1.0 is:

  - About [**Blockspace**](./polkadot-v1.md#polkadots-blockspace) (the underlying resource that
  chains provide)
  - **A platform to build applications** rather than chains, and for people to use those applications.

>   Fundamentally, Polkadot is not a platform to host chains, and so far, chains have happened to be one

Reviewer: But wasn't the point of parachains to build blockchains, essentially? Or was it always to build applications (and blockchains were just the way to do that)

candle auction mechanism. With [coretime](#agile-coretime-allocation), there is no need for
auctions anymore. Teams can purchase on-demand coretime or reserve bulk coretime as required. This
greatly decreases the barrier-to-entry for software tinkerers and parachain teams. Coretime will also allow any application to access Polkadot's computation based on their needs maximizing the use of valuable blockspace.

## From Slot Auctions to Coretime Marketplace

The end product of blockchains is [**Blockspace**](./polkadot-v1.md#polkadots-blockspace).
Applications need to access Polkadot's blockspace, and the entry points to blockspace are the cores.
Thus, applications will need to reserve some time on cores or **Coretime** to gain the right to
access Polkadot's secure blockspace and interoperability for a finite period.

Cores must be agile and general: they can change what job they run as easily as a modern CPU. It
follows that the procurement of those cores must be agile as well.

The auction mechanism is not agile, creates high entry barriers, and is designed for long-running
single applications (i.e., the original Polkadot vision proposed in the whitepaper).

> We depart from the classic lease auctions and propose an agile marketplace for coretime, where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, classic lease auctions were deprecated, instead an agile marketplace for coretime was born, where
```

essentially **coretime becomes a commodity that can be tokenized, sold, and traded**. This setup
maximizes the agility of Polkadot and lets the market figure out the best solution needed for
applications to be successful.

Applications can reserve **bulk coretime** and **on-demand coretime** depending on their needs. Bulk
coretime rental will be a standard rental of coretime through a broker system parachain at a fixed
price for a fixed period of time. On-demand coretime rental will be available through ongoing sale
of coretime for immediate use at a spot price. This system lowers the barrier to entry for
prospective builders.

For example, revenues from coretime sales can be burnt, used to fund the Treasury, or used for a mix

> of those options. The topic is currently under discussion. For more information, see

Reviewer: I suppose because this is the vision section, we don't mind referring to things that may change, correct?

Author: good catch, updated
